doc/index.rst, before:

=========
jsonlines
=========

.. py:currentmodule:: jsonlines

``jsonlines`` is a Python library to simplify working with jsonlines_
and ndjson_ data.

.. _jsonlines: http://jsonlines.org/
.. _ndjson: http://ndjson.org/

This data format is straight-forward: it is simply one valid JSON
value per line, encoded using UTF-8. While code to consume and create
such data is not that complex, it quickly becomes non-trivial enough
to warrant a dedicated library when adding data validation, error
handling, support for both binary and text streams, and so on. This
small library implements all that (and more!) so that applications
using this format do not have to reinvent the wheel.


Features
========

* Convenient :py:func:`~jsonlines.open()` function

  * makes simple cases trivial to write
  * takes a file name and a mode
  * returns either a :py:class:`~jsonlines.Reader` or
    :py:class:`~jsonlines.Writer` instance
  * can be used as a context manager

* Flexible :py:class:`~jsonlines.Reader`

  * wraps a file-like object
  * can read lines directly via the
    :py:meth:`~jsonlines.Reader.read()` method
  * can be used as an iterator, either directly or via the
    :py:meth:`~jsonlines.Reader.iter()` method
  * can validate data types, including `None` checks
  * can skip invalid lines during iteration
  * provides decent error messages
  * can be used as a context manager
  * allows complete control over decoding using a custom ``loads``
    callable

* Flexible :py:class:`~jsonlines.Writer`

  * wraps a file-like object
  * can produce compact output
  * can sort keys (deterministic output)
  * can flush the underlying stream after each write
  * can be used as a context manager
  * allows complete control over encoding using a custom ``dumps``
    callable


Installation
============

::

  pip install jsonlines


User guide
==========

Import the ``jsonlines`` module to get started:

.. code-block:: python

    import jsonlines


The convenience function :py:func:`jsonlines.open()` takes a file name
and returns either a reader or writer, making simple cases extremely
simple::

  with jsonlines.open('input.jsonl') as reader:
      for obj in reader:
          ...

  with jsonlines.open('output.jsonl', mode='w') as writer:
      writer.write(...)


A :py:class:`Reader` wraps a file-like object::

  fp = io.BytesIO(...)  # readable file-like object
  reader = jsonlines.Reader(fp)
  first = reader.read()
  second = reader.read()
  reader.close()
  fp.close()

While the :py:meth:`Reader.read` method can be used directly, it is
often more convenient to use iteration::

  for obj in reader:
      ...

Custom iteration flags, such as type checks, can be specified by
calling :py:meth:`Reader.iter()` instead::

  for obj in reader.iter(type=dict, skip_invalid=True):
      ...


A :py:class:`Writer` also wraps a file-like object, and can
write both a single object, or multiple objects at once::

  fp = io.BytesIO()  # writable file-like object
  writer = jsonlines.Writer(fp)
  writer.write(...)
  writer.write_all([
      ...,
      ...,
      ...,
  ])
  writer.close()
  fp.close()

Both readers and writers can be used as a context manager, in which
case they will be closed automatically. Note that this does not close
the passed-in file-like object since that object‘s life span is
controlled by the calling code. Example::

  fp = io.BytesIO()  # file-like object
  with jsonlines.Writer(fp) as writer:
      writer.write(...)
  fp.close()

Note that the :py:func:`jsonlines.open()` function *does* close the
opened file, since the open file is not explicitly opened by the
calling code. That means no ``.close()`` is needed there::

  with jsonlines.open('input.jsonl') as reader:
      ...

This should be enough to get started. See the API docs below for
more details.


API
===

.. autofunction:: jsonlines.open

.. autoclass:: jsonlines.Reader
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

.. autoclass:: jsonlines.Writer
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

.. autoclass:: jsonlines.Error
   :members:

.. autoclass:: jsonlines.InvalidLineError
   :members:


Contributing
============

The source code and issue tracker for this package can be found on Github:

  https://github.com/wbolster/jsonlines


Version history
===============

* 1.0.0, released at 2016-10-05

  * minimum python versions are python 3.4+ and python2.7+
  * implemented lots of configuration options
  * add proper exceptions handling
  * add proper documentation
  * switch to semver


* 0.0.1, released at 2015-03-02

  * initial release with basic functionality


License
=======

Copyright © 2016, Wouter Bolsterlee

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
  other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of the author nor the names of the contributors may be used
  to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
  prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

*(This is the OSI approved 3-clause "New BSD License".)*

Commit message:

rename first arg to Reader
…since it’s no longer limited to a file-like object, but just a plain
iterable (which includes readable file-like objects).

closes #23

doc/index.rst, after:

=========
jsonlines
=========

.. py:currentmodule:: jsonlines

``jsonlines`` is a Python library to simplify working with jsonlines_
and ndjson_ data.

.. _jsonlines: http://jsonlines.org/
.. _ndjson: http://ndjson.org/

This data format is straight-forward: it is simply one valid JSON
value per line, encoded using UTF-8. While code to consume and create
such data is not that complex, it quickly becomes non-trivial enough
to warrant a dedicated library when adding data validation, error
handling, support for both binary and text streams, and so on. This
small library implements all that (and more!) so that applications
using this format do not have to reinvent the wheel.


Features
========

* Convenient :py:func:`~jsonlines.open()` function

  * makes simple cases trivial to write
  * takes a file name and a mode
  * returns either a :py:class:`~jsonlines.Reader` or
    :py:class:`~jsonlines.Writer` instance
  * can be used as a context manager

* Flexible :py:class:`~jsonlines.Reader`

  * wraps a file-like object
  * can read lines directly via the
    :py:meth:`~jsonlines.Reader.read()` method
  * can be used as an iterator, either directly or via the
    :py:meth:`~jsonlines.Reader.iter()` method
  * can validate data types, including `None` checks
  * can skip invalid lines during iteration
  * provides decent error messages
  * can be used as a context manager
  * allows complete control over decoding using a custom ``loads``
    callable

* Flexible :py:class:`~jsonlines.Writer`

  * wraps a file-like object or any other iterable yielding lines
  * can produce compact output
  * can sort keys (deterministic output)
  * can flush the underlying stream after each write
  * can be used as a context manager
  * allows complete control over encoding using a custom ``dumps``
    callable


Installation
============

::

  pip install jsonlines


User guide
==========

Import the ``jsonlines`` module to get started:

.. code-block:: python

    import jsonlines


The convenience function :py:func:`jsonlines.open()` takes a file name
and returns either a reader or writer, making simple cases extremely
simple::

  with jsonlines.open('input.jsonl') as reader:
      for obj in reader:
          ...

  with jsonlines.open('output.jsonl', mode='w') as writer:
      writer.write(...)

A :py:class:`Reader` typically wraps a file-like object::

  fp = io.BytesIO(...)  # readable file-like object
  reader = jsonlines.Reader(fp)
  first = reader.read()
  second = reader.read()
  reader.close()
  fp.close()

Instead of a file-like object, any iterable yielding JSON encoded
strings can be provided::

  lines = ['1', '2', '3']
  reader = jsonlines.Reader(lines)

While the :py:meth:`Reader.read` method can be used directly, it is
often more convenient to use iteration::

  for obj in reader:
      ...

Custom iteration flags, such as type checks, can be specified by
calling :py:meth:`Reader.iter()` instead::

  for obj in reader.iter(type=dict, skip_invalid=True):
      ...

A :py:class:`Writer` wraps a file-like object, and can write a single
object, or multiple objects at once::

  fp = io.BytesIO()  # writable file-like object
  writer = jsonlines.Writer(fp)
  writer.write(...)
  writer.write_all([
      ...,
      ...,
      ...,
  ])
  writer.close()
  fp.close()

Both readers and writers can be used as a context manager, in which
case they will be closed automatically. Note that this will not close
a passed-in file-like object since that object’s life span is
controlled by the calling code. Example::

  fp = io.BytesIO()  # file-like object
  with jsonlines.Writer(fp) as writer:
      writer.write(...)
  fp.close()

Note that the :py:func:`jsonlines.open()` function *does* close the
opened file, since the open file is not explicitly opened by the
calling code. That means no ``.close()`` is needed there::

  with jsonlines.open('input.jsonl') as reader:
      ...

This should be enough to get started. See the API docs below for
more details.


API
===

.. autofunction:: jsonlines.open

.. autoclass:: jsonlines.Reader
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

.. autoclass:: jsonlines.Writer
   :members:
   :inherited-members:

.. autoclass:: jsonlines.Error
   :members:

.. autoclass:: jsonlines.InvalidLineError
   :members:


Contributing
============

The source code and issue tracker for this package can be found on Github:

  https://github.com/wbolster/jsonlines


Version history
===============

* 1.0.0, released at 2016-10-05

  * minimum python versions are python 3.4+ and python2.7+
  * implemented lots of configuration options
  * add proper exceptions handling
  * add proper documentation
  * switch to semver


* 0.0.1, released at 2015-03-02

  * initial release with basic functionality


License
=======

Copyright © 2016, Wouter Bolsterlee

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
  other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of the author nor the names of the contributors may be used
  to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
  prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

*(This is the OSI approved 3-clause "New BSD License".)*
